docs(web-modeler): document web modeler tomcat changes (#7353)
camunda/camunda-docs: docs/self-managed/components/components-upgrade/880-to-890.md

```

See [Logging](/self-managed/components/modeler/web-modeler/configuration/logging.md) for advanced settings and more details.

### Embedded web server

Web Modeler now uses [Apache Tomcat](https://tomcat.apache.org/) as an embedded web server instead of [Undertow](https://undertow.io/).

If you are using a custom Undertow configuration, you will need to migrate it.

You should consider the following when upgrading:

:::info

- For a full list of Spring properties, refer to the [Spring documentation](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/appendix/application-properties/index.html).
- For more information, refer to the [Spring embededded web server documentation](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/how-to/webserver.html).

:::

#### Undertow-specific properties (remove/replace)

If you have anything defined under:

```yaml
server.undertow.*
```

> These properties will not work once you switch to Tomcat. See below for a complete list of important properties, and the recommended action to take.

Reviewer: 🔧 Let's not claim that this is a "complete list" but just highlights the most important properties from Camunda's perspective. Additionally, I'd reference https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/3.5/how-to/webserver.html#howto.webserver.configure and/or https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/3.5/appendix/application-properties/index.html#appendix.application-properties.server here.

| :---------------------------------- | :----------------------- |
| `server.tomcat.accesslog.enabled`   | Enable Tomcat access log |
| `server.tomcat.accesslog.directory` | Directory for logs       |
| `server.tomcat.accesslog.pattern`   | Log format               |
| `server.tomcat.accesslog.prefix`    | Filename prefix          |
| `server.tomcat.accesslog.suffix`    | Filename suffix          |

:::note
Tomcat rotates differently than Undertow. Verify log retention and file sizes.
:::

##### Performance/threading

| Property                          | Description                         |
| :-------------------------------- | :---------------------------------- |
| `server.tomcat.max-connections`   | Max simultaneous connections        |
| `server.tomcat.accept-count `     | Queue size for incoming connections |
| `server.tomcat.max-threads `      | Max request-processing threads      |
| `server.tomcat.min-spare-threads` | Minimum idle threads                |

Tomcat uses a standard blocking I/O thread model, unlike Undertow’s worker and IO threads.

##### MBean registry

Tomcat disables the MBean registry by default:

```
server.tomcat.mbeanregistry.enabled=true

> ```

Reviewer 2: Resolved in upcoming commit

```

See [Logging](/self-managed/components/modeler/web-modeler/configuration/logging.md) for advanced settings and more details.

### Embedded Web Server

Web Modeler now uses [Apache Tomcat](https://tomcat.apache.org/) instead of [Undertow](https://undertow.io/).

> If you are using a custom undertow configuration, you will need to migrate it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are using a custom Undertow configuration, you will need to migrate it.
```

The following sections describe different aspects to take into account.

> I full list of the Spring properties can be found [here](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/appendix/application-properties/index.html), and also you can check the [Spring embededded web server documentation](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/how-to/webserver.html) for other details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:::info

- A full list of Spring properties can be found in the [Spring documentation](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/appendix/application-properties/index.html). 
- 
- You can also refer to the [Spring embedded web server documentation](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/how-to/webserver.html) for additional information.
- 

:::
```

Tomcat uses a standard blocking I/O thread model, unlike Undertow’s worker and IO threads.

##### Remote IP/proxy handling

If you are behind a proxy/load balancer, review the following properties:

| Property                                  | Use                          |
| :---------------------------------------- | :--------------------------- |
| `server.tomcat.remoteip.remote-ip-header` | Example: `X-Forwarded-For`   |
| `server.tomcat.remoteip.protocol-header`  | Example: `X-Forwarded-Proto` |
| `server.tomcat.remoteip.internal-proxies` | Regex for trusted proxies    |
| `server.forward-headers-strategy`         | `NATIVE` or `FRAMEWORK`      |

:::info important
As Undertow handled forwarded headers differently, it is important that you review these properties.
:::

##### MBean registry

Tomcat disables the MBean registry by default:

```
server.tomcat.mbeanregistry.enabled=true
```

Enable this if you need Java Management Extensions (JMX) metrics.

##### Legacy cookie processor (if needed)

If your app depends on older or RFC-violating cookies:

```
server.tomcat.use-legacy-cookie-processor=true
```

> Undertow is more lenient with cookies, so some apps require this.

Reviewer: @pablocabrera85 Why is this section needed? Web Modeler doesn't use cookies.

##### Additional Tomcat options

| Property                            | Notes                                                   |
| :---------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------ |
| `server.tomcat.relaxed-path-chars`  | Useful for special characters in URLs.                  |

> | `server.tomcat.relaxed-query-chars` | Needed when Undertow allowed characters Tomcat rejects. |

Reviewer: Same question as https://github.com/camunda/camunda-docs/pull/7353/files#r2557822900

| `server.tomcat.connection-timeout`  | Defaults differ compared to Undertow.                   |

#### Review behavioral differences (Not Just Properties)

Review the following, in addition to the properties as described above.

##### URL decoding and allowed characters

As Tomcat is stricter, if you were previously using URLs such as:

```
/api/v1/some%2Fpath
```

Tomcat could reject them, unless you update your configuration:

```
server.tomcat.relaxed-path-chars=/
server.tomcat.relaxed-query-chars=|,{,},[,]

> ```

Reviewer: @pablocabrera85 Web Modeler doesn't use such paths though, does it?

| server.undertow.threads.worker | server.tomcat.max-threads                              |
| server.undertow.buffer-size    | Tomcat uses internal buffer sizes — no direct property |
| server.undertow.direct-buffers | No equivalent (Tomcat uses NIO buffers differently)    |

##### Undertow Builder/Handler Customizations

Properties such as:

```yaml
server.undertow.eager-filter-init
server.undertow.allow-encoded-slash
server.undertow.decode-url
server.undertow.max-http-post-size
server.undertow.no-request-timeout
```

Most have no direct Tomcat property and must be implemented via:

- TomcatServletWebServerFactory
- TomcatConnectorCustomizer
- or left out if not needed

#### Tomcat-Specific Properties (Add / Review)

Everything under:

```yaml
server.tomcat.*
```

Becomes newly relevant.
Here is the essential subset to review.

##### Access Logs

| Tomcat Property                   | Description              |
| --------------------------------- | ------------------------ |
| server.tomcat.accesslog.enabled   | Enable Tomcat access log |
| server.tomcat.accesslog.directory | Directory for logs       |

> | server.tomcat.accesslog.pattern   | Log format               |

Author: Does not apply here, this is the name of segment of a property

| server.tomcat.accesslog.prefix    | Filename prefix          |
| server.tomcat.accesslog.suffix    | Filename suffix          |

NOTE: Tomcat rotates differently than Undertow. Verify log retention and file sizes.

##### Performance / Threading

| Property                        | Description                         |
| ------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| server.tomcat.max-connections   | Max simultaneous connections        |
| server.tomcat.accept-count      | Queue size for incoming connections |
| server.tomcat.max-threads       | Max request-processing threads      |

> | server.tomcat.min-spare-threads | Minimum idle threads                |

Author: Does not apply here, this is the name of segment of a property
